	    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
	     MAGIC: THE BINDING–A BOOTLEG ROLE-PLAYING GAME

			     Dorian Bodine
	    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


Table of Contents
─────────────────

1. Introduction
2. Overview
.. 1. Concepts and Terms
.. 2. Our Definitions of Color, Color Identity and Color Inclusion
.. 3. Reading Cards into Faces
.. 4. A Character is Qualities and Lots
.. 5. A Plane is Elements and Haunts
.. 6. A Quest is Roads and Weather
.. 7. The Life of Wills and Threats
.. 8. The Arc of a Game
.. 9. Things You'll Want To-Hand
3. The Rules of Play
.. 1. Plane Creation
..... 1. Creating an Element
.. 2. Character Creation
..... 1. Magician Creation
..... 2. Will and Threat Negotiation
..... 3. Opposition Creation
.. 3. Playing a Quest
..... 1. Setup
..... 2. Questing
..... 3. Confrontation
..... 4. Resolution
4. An Example of Play (to be completed)
.. 1. Plane Creation
.. 2. Character Creation
.. 3. Choosing a Will
.. 4. Walking the Quest
.. 5. Confronting the Opposition
.. 6. Resolving the Story
5. Closing Words
6. The Legal Bit
.. 1. This Is Fan Art
.. 2. Unlicencing


1 Introduction
══════════════

  Magic: The Binding unfolds the story of one or more people trying to
  change their world or themselves using a ttrpg format of Magic: the
  Gathering. This is a fan-made format to use stories created by its
  players to shape drafting, the command zone, and stakes for each match
  played.

  A basic familiarity with the M:tG rules of play is assumed, although
  some common M:tG deckbuilding terms such as set and color identity
  will be explained here.


2 Overview
══════════

  This format is themed upon the idea of consulting with a diviner upon
  commiting to a course of action or a project, to better navigate its
  ups and downs.


2.1 Concepts and Terms
──────────────────────

  • /The Players/ are each person who comes to play Magic: the Binding,
    as this term is normally understood in Magic: the Gathering. In
    addition to those functions, Players are responsible for the story
    choices which are the subject of play, and may also engage in
    describing one or more planes as that story's setting.
  • /Relationships/ are the webs of interaction by which Magic: the
    Binding casts narrative meaning and tension into the Magic: the
    Gathering format played to resolve that story.
  • /Cards/ are the cards of Magic: the Gathering, such that they may be
    tied to the narrative mechanics of Magic: the Binding.
  • /Faces/ are how Cards are bonded to particular people, experiences,
    ideas, locations, things and events which could be known to those
    within the story, as particular expressions of particular
    Relationships.
  • /A Character/ uniquely pairs a Player to a specific collection of
    specific Cards and Faces currently tied to that Character through
    Relationships.
  • /Qualities/ are Faces relating to the internal identity and nature
    of a Character.
  • /Lots/ are Faces relating to the external circumstances and bonds of
    a Character.
  • /Libraries/ are non-land Cards which are currently tied to a
    Character but are not tied to a Face in any fixed way.
  • /Fealties/ are land Cards which are currently promised to a
    Character for their use by a Place out of respect to a Relationship.
  • /A Magician/ is a Character who are called to the action which
    drives this story; Players thereof may also be refered to as
    "Magicians" or "Magician Players."
  • /The Will/ is the particular significant change which moves a
    Magician, or several working together, to act.
  • /The Opposition/ is the Character which is drawn out of the
    multiverse by Magician actions to resist their Will.
  • /The Threat/ is the particular significant change which the
    Opposition tries to make happen in resistance to the Will.
  • /The Augur/ is the Player who is paired to the Opposition and
    responsible for relating parts of the world which are not the
    Magicians to their Players.
  • /Life/ is the strength of a Will or a Threat as it presses toward
    trying to happen.
  • /A Step/ is an act taken over time by Magicians to bring Life to
    their Will, and the attendent circumstances of that act.
  • /The Quest/ is the full set of Steps taken by Magicians to bring
    Life to their Will.
  • /Places/ are the Faces of land Cards, whereupon one or more Steps
    may occur.
  • /Roads/ are the land Cards which have yet to be associated with a
    Place, grouped by color identity.
  • /Elements/ are known and established people, creatures, features,
    factions, forces, stuff and things, any of which are not Characters
    but could be tied to Characters.
  • /Weather/ is the collection of non-land Cards which are not yet tied
    to a Face, but broadly reflect the kind of time it is here.
  • /A Plane/ uniquely groups together Places, Roads, Elements and
    Weather into a coherent world within the multiverse wherein Magicans
    may act.
  • /Planeswalkers/ are Characters able to move from one Plane to
    another in pursuit of the Will or the Threat.
  • /Confontation/ is the game of Magic played once its circumstances
    have been established by the Quest.
  • /Rest/ is the time when the new status quo settles in, where the
    changes won by the Confrontation are established.
  • /Fealty/ is support paid to Magicians by Places, earned by the
    struggles that Magician engaged upon them.


2.2 Our Definitions of Color, Color Identity and Color Inclusion
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  /"While in game play mechanics, the color of a card is always
  determined exclusively by the colors used in its casting cost or its
  color indicator (including some color indicators retroactively applied
  to cards like Ancestral Vision, which previously specified the card's
  color in the rule text), the color identity of a card is specified by
  all mana symbols that appear in its casting cost, color indicator, and
  rules text./

  /"For example, while Fires of Undeath is a R card, and Silver Knight
  has protection from it and White Knight does not. It can't be used by
  a player who uses Kumano, Master Yamabushi as their General in a game
  of Commander. This is because the color identity of Fires of Undeath
  is RB and is not a subset of the color-identity of Kumano (R)."/ –
  mtg.fandom.com/wiki/Color_identity as retrieved 16 November 2021

  This understanding of "color" and "color identity" is what these terms
  mean as they appear in these rules.


2.3 Reading Cards into Faces
────────────────────────────

  Cards are paired to Faces by an act of interpretation by the Players.

  Every Face must accord with what can be signified by one or more of
  the following features of its paired Card:
  • card name
  • card art
  • flavor text

  Every Face must also address a subject depending on its Card's type:
  • Faces paired with Spells–that is, Cards which are not creatures nor
    lands nor artifacts–must speak to the topic of "how" or "what"
    somehow. (E.g. Shock may describe a sudden calamity–a "what"–or a
    bracing or violent affect–a "how".)
  • Faces paired with Creatures–Cards which have a power and
    toughness–must speak to the topic of "who" or "where"
    somehow. (E.g. Ardent Militia may describe that specific band of
    volunteer watchmen–a "who"–or the place they live–a "where".)
  • Faces paired with Artifacts–Cards which have the "artifact" type but
    which are not lands and lack power and toughness of their own–must
    speak to the topic of "who" or "how" or "where" or "what" somehow.
  • Places–Faces paired with land Cards–must speak to the topic of
    "when" or "why" somehow.

  Note that the Face paired with a Card can be anything–anything in the
  world can symbolize a given Card–so long as a topic required by the
  current Card's type is addressed by Characters' relations with that
  Face.  For example, a weathered sign posted at a crossroads can speak
  to the people who put it there (Creatures), how it came to be there
  (Spells), why it is there (Places), a certain time or moment (Places),
  the kind of spot that this is (Creatures), or what kind of thing is
  going on there (Spells).

  At every phase of interpretation, either the Augur or a Magician has
  final say on the reading a Card to a Face.

  Cards are only ever directly experienced by Characters through their
  Faces, such that a single Face can come to represent an arbitrary
  number of Cards over time, and such that a single Card can be
  represented by any number of Faces.

  Major Faces are those tied to non-land non-planeswalker Cards with a
  converted mana cost (CMC) of 4 or more; minor Faces are those tied to
  non-land non-planeswalker Cards with a CMC of three or less.  This
  distinction between major and minor Faces is important for limiting
  the Cards tied to a Character's Qualities and the Lots, and it is
  important to resolving the Will and the Threat at the end of play.

  Players are also recommended to interpret major Faces as being more
  noticeable than minor Faces in most circumstances, but this bit is
  only a recommendation–not a rule.


2.4 A Character is Qualities and Lots
─────────────────────────────────────

  All Characters have ties to the things which make them themselves,
  both internally and externally. The internal Relationships are
  described as their Qualities, which they bring out of themselves into
  the world; the external Relationships are described as Lots, which
  move into their lives from the world around them. There are five kinds
  of Relationships which every Character may have, depending on whether
  they are Magician or Opposition.

  Magicians have:
  • a Homeland
  • a People
  • an Art
  • a Spark, if they are a planeswalker
  • the Deeds which they have accomplished and which linger on beyond
    the scope of the other kinds of Magician Relationship.
  Magician Relationships always center upon the Magician. That is, a
  Homeland is where the Magician hails from or lives or is brought up
  by, a People are who the Magician belongs with or to, an Art is how
  the Magician works magic, a Spark is how the Magician experiences
  their planeswalking, and Deeds are specific feats the Magician has
  accomplished. All of these are explicitly about the Magician.

  Oppositions have:
  • a Root
  • a Constituency
  • an Obstruction
  • an Eternity, if the Will being opposed is tied to a planeswalker
  • the Reaches established beyond the scope of the other kinds of
    Opposition Relationship.
  Opposition Relationships always tie a disparate group of persons and
  interests together against some Will. That is, a Root is about the
  thing which disposes the Opposition to take issue with a Will, a
  Constituency is about who or what is brought together in opposition to
  a Will, an Obstruction is about how the Opposition may obstruct a
  Will, an Eternity is about how the Will is resisted across several
  planes together, and Reaches are the specific Faces of note which are
  drawn together into the Opposition. All of these are explicitly about
  what brings together forces to oppose a particular Will.

  Qualities are always to do with how the Character makes sense of its
  relations to others and its capabilities.  Lots are always about how
  the world and the people and beings of it regard the Character and
  want to relate to it.

  Each Relationship may have up to two Qualities–one major and one
  minor–and two Lots–one major and one minor–tied to it. Every
  Relationship must have at least one Face tied to it, or there is no
  longer a Relationship there. A Relationship with a Quality but not a
  Lot is present in the Character's sense of self but is not exhibited
  in the world beyond the Magician–like an aspiration being strived
  toward or a loss being mourned. A Relationship with a Lot but not a
  Quality is like demonstrably having a dog or a friend but not really
  internalizing that fact of the world.

  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   Magician's Relationship  Qualities  Lots  Opposition's Relationship 
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   Homeland                 M/m        M/m   Root                      
   People                   M/m        M/m   Constituency              
   Art                      M/m        M/m   Obstruction               
   Spark                    M/m        M/m   Eternity                  
   Deeds                    M/m        M/m   Reach                     
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  A Character's Library is always related to that Character by virtue of
  being the impressions left upon that Character through their
  interactions with their broader world, whether those interactions come
  by outward experience or inward reflection.  The Cards of Qualities
  and Lots are always pulled from the Cards already in a Character's
  Library, as unspecific impressions settle upon and bind to a very
  specific Face.

  Similarly, a Character's Fealties are always related to them by virtue
  of the impressions upon that Land left by a Character's acts at that
  Place. Fealty promised to Character by a Place may be called upon to
  preserve the Life of a specific Will or Threat they serve, or to lend
  mana to the works of such a cause in its decisive Confrontation.


2.5 A Plane is Elements and Haunts
──────────────────────────────────

  Planes consist of everything about that world which persists across
  Quests.  Two things define each Plane: the Elements which populate
  them and the Haunts where they might be found.

  Elements populate each plane with the people, forces and things which
  make that plane its own distinct reality. They serve as things which
  Relations relate to. Each Element is made of three parts: a
  Disposition, Lore, and a Haunt. All three of these are used by the
  Augur to populate each Step of the Quest, by the players of Magicians
  to ground their Characters in the world of a Plane or several Planes,
  and by all players as lore to inform player understandings and
  decisions about the world of each Plane. Planes usually do not share
  or overlap in their Elements, excepting when those Elements are able
  to planeswalk or otherwise act in a coherent way across more than one
  Plane.

  Dispositions indicate both the kinds of Will an Element is predisposed
  to express, and the Roads which connect to their Haunt. If the Element
  has no Haunt, it will have no Disposition, and vice
  versa. Dispositions consist of one to three colors. The colors in a
  Disposition also provide a very loose idea of what constitutes this
  Element's normal intentions in the world. An Element without a
  Disposition is the same as an Element with an explicitly colorless
  Disposition, in that it seems weird, alien and inscrutable to others
  at large. Ugin's being mysterious, the Eldrazi being alien, and world
  forces or phenomena like the Roil of Zendikar all function identically
  in this respect: it is uncertain where, when, why, and sometimes even
  how such Elements appear in a world or act upon it.

  Haunts are specificly named and described Places which are established
  in their Faces. An Element is most strongly associated with its Haunt
  among all Places, and is most expected to be found there in usual
  circumstances. Elements without Dispositions are also without Haunts,
  which means they are equally likely to appear at or vanish from any
  given Place on the Plane which isn't expressly keeping them out. The
  Roil of Zendikar, the geists of Innistrad and the kami of Kamigawa are
  prime examples of Elements without Haunts. Contast these with the kor
  or merfolk of Zendikar, or Innistrad's werewolf packs and vampire
  courts.

  Lore is the information which seems to describe the Element's
  presence, past and existence in the world such that the claims that
  are a part of an Element's Lore are difficult to dispute. This
  explicitly does not mean that the Lore of any given Element is the
  truth of that Element, in whole or in part. Rather, Lore is
  information that does not create new conflicts or confusions when
  people in the world act like it is true. Similarly, deviating from
  Lore about an Element is likely to cause confusions and conflicts, not
  for reasons of truth but for the fact that each Element in the world
  settles into abiding by the Lore of itself and others as their measure
  of what is normal in the moment. Every Element has Lore, even if all
  that Lore amounts to is "no one knows."

  Lore may exist for each Haunt as well, beyond the Element tied to
  it. This will reflect matters such as contestation, the past of that
  place, its general usage, and other matters beyond what ties the Haunt
  to its current Element.


2.6 A Quest is Roads and Weather
────────────────────────────────

  Each Quest brings with it its own Cards freshly drafted into each
  Plane's Roads and Weather.  All Cards drawn into the Roads and Weather
  of a Plane for a Quest must come from the sets or collection of cards
  currently working through that Plane, e.g. the Tarkir block, or "any
  of the cards in Fred's binders."

  Roads are the land Cards which can be tied to Places connecting and
  representing the Haunts of a Plane's Elements. Each Plane always has
  five Roads drawn for it, one for each color, with the requirement that
  every card in a Road shares color identity with that Road's
  color. E.g. the Blue Road of a Plane drawing from the Tarkir block can
  have any Tarkir land in it which has blue in its color identity.

  /All Cards tied to the Places in a Plane are drawn from that Plane's
  Roads during the scope of a specific Quest./

  Haunts have Roads: within them, around them, connecting them to the
  rest of the Places of the Plane. This means that the land cards used
  to represent Haunts may vary from Quest to Quest, so long as they
  share color identity with the Disposition of the Element associated
  with that Haunt. Haunts may even be represented by multiple land
  cards, but the Place those land cards represents remains the same; in
  this case the different land cards are representing different facets
  of the same Place.

  A Road in a Haunt which happens to be a city might be the literal
  market street of that Haunt, an alley everyone overlooks, the palace
  or town hall from which that city is run, the basement of such a
  complex through which a smuggling ring operates, or anything else
  which is a Place fit for a Road sharing color identity with that
  Haunt. Similarly, Roads outside of Haunts can be any kind of Place
  fitting the color identity of that Road.

  Weather is the rippling-out within a particular Plane of particular
  patterns within that Plane's cosmic forces, each pattern playing out
  through the Plane's Faces and Places during a particular Quest. The
  Weather may be understood as an archetypal abstraction of the kinds of
  things about to happen in a world, which can in turn become lodged in
  Magicians as the technical inspirations behind their practical
  works–namely, a Magician's Library.

  Cards of the Weather and the Roads are combined with Cards from the
  Magician's Library to form the Steps of a Magician's Quest, the
  Library of the Opposition and the Places which shall add their Cards
  to every Character's Library when the Confrontation to decide the
  Quest takes place. See their respective sections to see how this is
  unfolded during play.

  What these uses of Roads and Weather reflect is that every Quest
  provides opportunities for meaningful changes to the abilities and
  imaginations of the Characters (both individuals and groups) beyond
  what a Will shall deliberately set at stake. There are unknown parts
  of the world playing out at every moment, whether we are setting out
  to change the world or setting out to change the laundry, and each one
  trickles into our lives in ways that are not always obvious as we set
  about these works.  Yet our encounters with these can directly affect
  our imaginings of what the world is and what we can and cannot do
  within it; this is the part of being a Magician that Roads and Weather
  are meant to express.


2.7 The Life of Wills and Threats
─────────────────────────────────

  There are five kinds of Will, each corresponding to a color:
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   Will      Color      What It Tries to Do                                
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   Keep      White {W}  prevent a Face from changing or revert a change    
   Diminish  Blue {U}   change Card tied to a Face for one with lower CMC  
   End       Black {B}  remove a Face from a Quality or Lot                
   Start     Red {R}    add a Face to a Quality or Lot                     
   Grow      Green {G}  change Card tied to a Face for one with higher CMC 
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  Threats being what Oppositions puts to Magicians to scare them off
  fulfilling Wills, the structure and color of Threats and Wills are
  identical.

  Each Will moving Magicians to act, and each Threat reacting to the
  Wills of Magicians, are therefore this same kind of specialized
  sentence: /"{color verb} {one or more target Faces}."/

  What the Will tries to act upon are either the Magicians' Lots or
  their Qualities, but never both. Success means the Magician can change
  Faces of the kind they picked; failure means the Opposition will
  dictate changes to the Faces tied to the other kind.

  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   Scope of Change                               Life Needed 
  ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   1 minor Face                                           20 
   2 minor or 1 major                                     40 
   3 minor, or 1 major & 1 minor                          60 
   4 minor, 2 minor 1 major, or 2 major                   80 
   5 minor, 3 minor 1 major, or 2 major 1 minor          100 
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


2.8 The Arc of a Game
─────────────────────

  1) The players determine their roles, the Magicians and the Planes
     deemed of interest.
  2) The Magicians determine their Will.
  3) The Augur determines the Threat.
  4) The Magicians Quest while the Augur develops the Opposition in
     response.
  5) The Magicians Confront the Opposition and they fight as represented
     by playing a game of Magic.
  6) A new status quo is determined through Rest after the
     Confrontation, for good or for ill.


2.9 Things You'll Want To-Hand
──────────────────────────────

  ⁃ Paper and writing utensils.
  ⁃ Unique card sleeves and movement coin, for each Character.
  ⁃ EITHER a _big_ box of M:tG cards, grouped by color identity and
    relevant sets, OR supplies making proxy cards, depending on how the
    Cards to be used will be determined (see Plane Creation and
    Character Creation, below)


3 The Rules of Play
═══════════════════

3.1 Plane Creation
──────────────────

  Each Plane has two things which must persist from game to game, though
  they can be changed as a consequence of play:
  • a list of Elements and their Haunts.
  • a list Cards currently available through the Plane–this can either
    be defined as a list of allowed sets and expansions, or by some
    other collection like a premade cube or "all the cards I have set
    aside in this drawer."

  Each Plane also has two things which are expected to change from game
  to game, though they might persist between games that occur at the
  same time or in games played limited by the number of cards owned:
  • the Weather, which is organized as a single stack of all non-land
    non-planeswalker Cards.
  • the five Roads, one for each color, which each consist of land cards
    including that color in their color identity–i.e. all cards in the
    Blue Road have blue in their color identity.

  For the convenience of Players discussing the kind of world or worlds
  you would like to play in, it can help to give each Plane its own name
  and uniting concept. These are not necessary parts of a Plane–and I
  challenge you to find the name and uniting concept of the world you
  are in if you disagree–but they are useful for conversations among
  Planeswalkers.

  The steps for creating a Plane are these:
  ⁃ (Optional) Give the Plane a name and a uniting concept that helps
    shape what it is all about, who peoples it, and so on.
  ⁃ Define at least 25 Elements of the Plane.
  ⁃ Choose the pool of Cards from which this Plane's Roads and Weather
    shall be drawn.
    ⁃ This must include basic lands, Creatures and Spells
    ⁃ It may include Artifacts
    ⁃ It specifically may not include Planeswalkers

  These three steps are given in an un-ordered list because they do not
  have to be executed in any particular order–really, they're just the
  basic criteria you need to make Characters from that Plane or start a
  Quest set there.


3.1.1 Creating an Element
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  An Element has either two, four or five things:
  • a name for it
  • its Lore
  • its Disposition, if any
  • its Haunt, if any
  • the Lore of its Haunt, if any

  Each Element in all of its parts is established by a consensus among
  the Players–even Planes established in the main storylines by WotC are
  taken up by the group of Players to the best of their understanding.

  Essentially, Elements are not exactly the things they describe, but
  are instead descriptions of how those things fit into Characters'
  experiences.

  Elements are created as part of Players' creating a Plane, and also in
  the Resolution step of a Binding game.


3.2 Character Creation
──────────────────────

  Creating a Magician and creating their Opposition are very similar,
  but the Magicians must be made before their Opposition can form.


3.2.1 Magician Creation
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Magician creation amounts to an abbreviated of this Character's
  backstory.  It proceeds in the following phases:
  1. Shuffle the Roads and the Weather of their home Plane.
  2. The Magician Player names three Faces for the Magician's Qualities
     and two Faces for their Lots. Planeswalkers also choose an
     additional Face for their Spark, which may be either a Quality or a
     Lot.
  3. Choose or create a Place in the Plane for each Face to be tied to
     (multiple Faces can be tied to the same Place).
  4. For each Face tied to the Magician:
     1. Draw one Card from any Road and reveal it.
     2. Draw 15 Cards from the Weather of their home Plane.
        ‣ Exception! If this Face relates to a Planeswalker's Spark,
          draw these Cards from the Weather of the Plane they walked to,
          instead of their home Plane.
     3. Reveal one of these Cards and pair it with the current Face in
        question. Set it in the Relationship Zone.
     4. Reveal one to three of the remaining Cards drawn from the
        Weather.
     5. Total the CMC of all Cards revealled this way.
     6. Note Fealty from this Place equal to the total CMC of the Cards
        returned to the Weather, as well as the specific Card drawn from
        the Road to represent this Place.
     7. Return all revealled Cards to the bottom of the Road or the
        Weather from whence they were drawn.
     8. Add all the remaining Cards to the Library.
  5. The Magician Player names their Magician.
  6. The Magician Player writes a one-sentence story for each Face tied
     to their Magician describing how the Magician first met or
     discovered that Face.

  That's it! You are ready to select a Will and help the Augur start
  creating the Opposition.


3.2.2 Will and Threat Negotiation
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Will creation is a collaborative decision-making process between the
  Magician Player(s) which the Augur prompts and loosely facilitates. It
  proceeds more-or-less in this way:
  • The Augur reviews the Elements with Dispositions which might, in
    their view, trouble the Magician(s).
  • The Magicians discuss what they want to achieve.
  • The Augur helps the Magician Player(s) articulate their goal in the
    form of a Will statement.
  • The Augur helps the Magician(s) name the specific Faces they wish to
    affect.

  Once the Will and its target Faces are established, the Augur proposes
  to the Magician(s) Threats and Faces to be threatened, until a
  proposed Threat is accepted. The identity of the Opposition may be
  decided upon by the Augur at this point, who may reveal or withhold
  the identity chosen for the Opposition at any point of the Quest
  between this moment and the Confrontation.


3.2.3 Opposition Creation
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Opposition creation is a proceeds in the following phases:
  1. Shuffle the Weather of their home Plane.
  2. The Augur player secretly gives the Opposition one Face for each of
     its Relationship Qualities and two Lots. If the Opposition can
     planeswalk, it is given a Spark Face as well.
  3. The Augur then gives the Opposition a name.

  That's it! Cards will be added to the Opposition's Library and
  established Faces from the Weather as the Quest progresses. Additional
  Faces and Reach may also be secretly assigned as the sequence of Steps
  progresses.


3.3 Playing a Quest
───────────────────

3.3.1 Setup
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Setting up the Quest requires:
  1) Preparing the Plane or Planes likely to feature in this Quest.
  2) Drawing Cards from the Weather of those Planes to fill out the
     Opposition's initial Qualities and Lots.
  3) Allocating Influence counters to each Quality and Lot of the
     Magicians.

  At a minimum, this requires knowing how many Magicians come together
  in this Quest. If one or more of the Magicians are Planeswalkers, then
  each Plane which is hosting one or more Magicians at the start of the
  Quest must be prepared. Further, unprepared, Planes to which one or
  more Magicians travel in the course of Questing must be prepared at
  the moment the Magicians travel to them.

  For each Plane, the Augur prepares the Roads and Weather according to
  the following steps. The Augur may do so without revealing the Cards
  selected to the Magicians, though the Augur is encouraged to organize
  their cards such that they can be shuffled and selected without the
  Augur seeing them either.

  /Example:/ /Fred keeps all her Cards for Ravnica's Roads and Weather
  neatly divided in four sections for each color: basic lands of that
  color, nonbasic lands which include that color in their color
  identity, minor Cards which include that color, and major Cards which
  include that Color. She makes a point to keep Cards evenly
  representing each Guild of Ravnica in the each of the colors tied to
  that Guild, so there are about as many blue-green Simic cards in the
  blue section as there are in the green, and so on. When she needs to
  Augur a Quest involving Ravnica, she can just shuffle and draw from
  each subsection if she wants a more draft-like challenge, or she can
  pick through and curate the Cards selected to make curating the
  challenge for the Magician Players easier./


◊ 3.3.1.1 The Planes

  ◊ 3.3.1.1.1 Roads

    The five Roads of a Plane are constructed in this way:
    1. For each Road in the Plane:
       1. Collect ten basic land Cards of the color identity matching
          the Road for every Magician in this Quest as the start of the
          Road. E.g. the Red Road of a Plane in a Quest with three
          Magicians starts with thirty Mountains.
       2. Add five nonbasic land Cards which include the color identity
          of the Road for every Magician in this Quest. E.g. the Red
          Road of a Plane in a Quest with three Magicians gets fifteen
          nonbasic lands that include red in their color
          identity. (Colorless lands may be included in any Road as
          nonbasic.)
       3. Shuffle the Road and place it among the Roads of the Plane.
    Each Road should consist of fifteen Cards per Magician by the time
    this is done.


  ◊ 3.3.1.1.2 Weather

    The Weather of a Plane is constructed in this way:
    1. For each of the five colors, in any order the Augur feels like:
       1. Add twelve minor Cards including that color in its identity
          and six major Cards including that color in its identity to
          the Weather.
       2. Flip two coins.
       3. For each coin that came up heads, add another major Card which
          has this color in its color identity.
       4. For each coin that came up tails, add one minor Card which has
          this color in its color identity.
    2. For each Magician in the Quest:
       1. The Magician picks one of the five colors.
       2. Starting with the color selected by the Magician, the Augur:
          1) Flips two coins.
          2) Adds one major Card of the color in question to the
             Weather, if both coins came up heads.
          3) Adds one minor Card of the color in question to the
             Weather, if only one coin came up heads.
          4) Moves clockwise to the next color in the color wheel as
             printed on the back of M:tG cards, if both coins came up
             tails.
          5) Repeats this cycle from 1) to 4) until twenty Cards have
             been added to the Weather this way.
    The Weather should consist of twenty Cards for every color and
    twenty cards for every Magician by the time this is done.


◊ 3.3.1.2 The Opposition

  1. Qualities. For each Relationship of the Opposition, the Augur:
     1) Selects a Plane.
     2) Draws five Cards from the Weather of that Plane.
     3) Places one major Card, one minor Card, or both one major Card
        AND one minor Card face-down for the Quality of that
        Relationship.
     4) Returns the remaining Cards to the bottom of the selected
        Plane's Weather.
  2. Lots. For each Relationship of the Opposition, the Augur then:
     1) Selects a Plane.
     2) Draws five Cards from the Weather of that Plane.
     3) Places one major Card, one minor Card, or both one major Card
        AND one minor Card face-down for the Lot of that Relationship.
     4) Returns the remaining Cards to the bottom of the selected
        Plane's Weather.
  3. Threat. Set the Life of the Threat to the target Life of the Will.


◊ 3.3.1.3 The Magicians

  1. Will. Set the Life of the Will to zero.
  2. Influence. Give each Quality and Lot of a Magician two Influence
     counters if it is major and one if it is minor.
  3. Libraries. Each Magician shuffles their Library.


3.3.2 Questing
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Questing proceeds as the Magicians each take Steps which will
  establish their personal Front in the Confrontation which will
  determine the fate of their Quest.


◊ 3.3.2.1 Taking Steps

  Steps proceed this way:
  1) Move. The Magician is moved through a selected Place where
     something noteworthy to them shall happen, and a Card from a
     selected Road is drawn to represent that Place. The Place and Road
     are selected by whomever won this Magician's last Step–the Augur or
     the Magician; the first Step of a Quest is always selected by the
     Magician.
  2) Draw. The Magician draws up to a hand of five Cards from their
     Library. The Augur draws five Cards from the Weather, in addition
     to any Cards they have left in their hand.
  3) Flirt. The Augur establishes an appropriate setting and scene in
     the selected Place at which the Magician notices something, and
     describes what catches the Magician's attention. The Augur plays
     one Card appropriate to what catches the Magician's attention,
     which is added to the Step as the Flirt.
  4) Answer. The Magician plays one Card from her hand to the Step as
     her Answer, and describes its appropriate Face as her initial
     response to the Flirt.
  5) Exploration (optional). The Magicain expends an Influence counter
     from one of her Qualities or Lots to play a second Card from her
     hand, and describes her further engagement with the substance of
     the Flirt as the Face of this second Card.
  6) Reflection. The Augur does one of two things:
     • Reach. If the Magician did not Explore, the Augur may add two
       (and only two) face-down Cards, one major and one minor, to the
       Opposition as a single Reach.
     • Reveal. If the Magician Explored, the Augur must choose a Lot or
       Quality with two face-down Cards, add one to this Step with a
       description appropriate to the Card, and flip the other Card tied
       to that Relationship face-up.
       ‣ Note that a single face-down Card tied to a Quality cannot be
         revealed in this manner!
  7) Direction. Total the CMC of all Cards played into this Step by the
     Magician and all Cards played into this Step by the Augur, and
     compare the two:
     • If the Magician's total is equal to or greater than the Augur's
       total, add the difference to the Life of the Will. The Magician
       selects the Place and Road for their next Step.
     • If the Magician's total is less than the Augur's total, add the
       difference to the Life of the Threat. The Augur selects the Place
       and Road for this Magician's next Step.
  8) Tension. Check the current Life totals of the Will and the Threat
     to determine whether Questing ends.
  9) If Questing has not ended, move on to the next Step.

  If there is more than one Magician, each Magician takes their Steps in
  rounds this way:
  • The Augur chooses the first Magician who takes their first Step,
    then the next, then the next, until every Magician has taken their
    first Step.
  • The Augur then chooses the order of which Magician takes the next
    Step with the same discretion they had in the first round of Steps,
    i.e. every Magician must take their second Step before a Magician
    takes a third Step, and so on.


◊ 3.3.2.2 Forming the Front

  A Magician's Front is used to track the Steps that Magician has taken
  in pursuit of the Will. Their Front will also be used to designate the
  Battlefield for each Magician's interactions with the Opposition in
  the Confrontation, and to determine the casualties among that
  Magician's Relationships in the Resolution.

  Each Step is placed in the front in the customary reading order for
  the Players' common language, such that they can be read as a line
  between the Magician Player and the Augur Player. For example, among
  English-speaking Players the rightmost Step is the most recent Step.

  The Front is also useful for tracking how much Life each Magician
  contributes toward their Will.


◊ 3.3.2.3 How Questing Ends

  Questing ends when one of these things happens:
  1. The Life of the Will now exceeds the Life of the Threat: this
     starts the Confrontation immediately.
  2. The Life of the Will now meets the target Life of the Will: this
     forces each Magician to choose whether or not to start the
     Confrontation at the end of every Step.
  3. The Life of the Threat is now greater than twice the target Life of
     the Will: this immediately bypasses the Confrontation and begins
     Resolution.
  4. All Magician Players Concede: this immediately bypasses the
     Confrontation and begins Resolution.
  5. A Magician Player runs out of Cards to draw from their Library:
     this immediately bypasses the Confrontation and begins Resolution.

  These four cirmstances are always checked for at the end of every
  Step.

  If the Confrontation starts, whomever was given the choice of Place
  and Road for this Magician's next Step instead has the choice of
  whether to draw first or play first in the Conflict.


3.3.3 Confrontation
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  This is a single hand of Magic: the Gathering played with the Cards
  established for each Character to resolve the contest between the Will
  and the Threat. The hand is played with the format described below.


◊ 3.3.3.1 The Format

  • Each Will has one or more Magician Players who all take each phase
    of their turns simultaneously, similar to turn-taking in Two-Headed
    Giant.
  • Each Magician has their own Front against the Opposition. Fronts
    work in this way:
    • Each Front of an Opposition has its own hand, battlefield and
      graveyard.
    • Every Front of an Opposition draws its own hand from the same
      Library.
    • The Augur may move any Cards from the hand held at one Front to
      the hand held at another during the upkeep step of the
      Opposition's turn.
    • The Augur may move any Cards in play from the battlefield of one
      Front to the battlefield of another during the upkeep step of the
      Opposition's turn.
    • Any cards sent to a graveyard on a Front go either to the
      Magician's graveyard at that Front or the Opposition's graveyard
      at that front.
    • Magicians of the same Will may move any Cards in play from the
      battlefield of their Front to the battlefield of another Front
      during the Magician's upkeep step. The Magician whose Front these
      Cards move to becomes their controller.
    • Magicians may only target hands, battlefields and graveyards
      present at their own Front.
    • The Augur may only target a given Magician's hand, battlefield or
      graveyards with cards present at that Magician's Front.
    • Players may only declare attackers and blockers among Cards
      present on the same Front.
    • Any targeting of a player for matters other than Life, poison
      counters, or control of a card in play, only targets the Magician
      or Opposition at that Front, as does any instance of "you" or
      "your" played by the Magician or Opposition at a Front. E.g. a
      card that says "you take an extra turn immediately after this one"
      would give only that Magician or the Opposition at that Front the
      extra turn.
    • Mulligan rules snowball for the Opposition only. That is, if the
      Augur mulligans the hands of two Fronts, she must first mulligan
      the hand of one Front for the purposes of reduced starting hand
      size, and then she can mulligan the second hand.
  • /ONCE PER A TURN DURING THE UPKEEP STEP/ a Magician may spend a
    Fealty owed them by some Place to add the land Card tied to that
    Fealty to their Library. Magicians who do this then shuffle their
    Library.
  • /WHENEVER THE LIFE TOTAL OF THE WILL IS ABOUT TO BE REDUCED TO BELOW
    1/ any Magicians may spend any combination of their Fealties to add
    the minimum Life needed to keep the Will's Life total above 0, at
    one Life gained per Fealty spent.
  • All Cards tied to a Relationship are placed in a dedicated area for
    the Character tied to that Relationship, called the Relationship
    Zone. Relationship Zones work as follows:
    • All Cards in the Relationship Zone of a Character may be played
      from the Reltionship Zone as though they were in the hand of the
      Player of that Character, though they are not in any Player's hand
      and are unaffected by spells and abilities which target a hand.
    • All Cards played from the Relationship Zone are subject to
      Commander Tax–that is, they cost an extra 2 generic mana to play
      for each time they are cast from the Relationship Zone after the
      first.
    • The Relationship Zone supercedes the Command Zone and is where all
      the other things go which would normally use the Command
      Zone–e.g. emblems.
    • When the Confrontation starts, all face-down Faces of the
      Opposition are turned face-up.


◊ 3.3.3.2 How Confrontations End

  Confrontations end when:
  1. A customary win condition of Magic: the Gathering is achieved, such
     as reducing the Life total of the opponents to zero.
  2. Either the Augur or the Magicians concede before that happens,
     which may be done to prevent the likely outcomes of Resolution from
     worsening.


3.3.4 Resolution
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  The Resolution of a Quest proceeds as follows:
  1. Victory. Changes to Faces are executed as specified by the Will or
     Threat, based on which side prevailed in the Confrontation.
     • If the Confrontation was bypassed, the changes of the Threat are
       executed.
  2. Fallout. The Magicians coordinate where they will accept their
     losses together as they each consider what endangered Faces they
     may preserve with the remaining Life among them. Every Face among a
     Magician's Qualities or Lots without an Influence counter on it
     must either:
     1) Reduce the remaining Life total by its CMC in order to place an
        Influence counter upon it, if and only if that reduction will
        not reduce the Life total below 1.
     2) Dissolve its Face and return its Card to the Magician's Library.
  3. Fealty. Each Magician deconstructs the Steps of their Front,
     choosing to either:
     1) Keep the Cards they played at that Step in their Library, or
     2) Trade the Cards they played at that Step for the Cards played by
        the Augur there, or
     3) Sacrifice the Cards they played at that Step for Fealty from
        that Place in the form of the specific land that represented it.


4 An Example of Play (to be completed)
══════════════════════════════════════

4.1 Plane Creation
──────────────────


4.2 Character Creation
──────────────────────


4.3 Choosing a Will
───────────────────


4.4 Walking the Quest
─────────────────────


4.5 Confronting the Opposition
──────────────────────────────


4.6 Resolving the Story
───────────────────────


5 Closing Words
═══════════════


6 The Legal Bit
═══════════════

6.1 This Is Fan Art
───────────────────

  I make, play and release this game for personal benefit as art
  therapy. I share it with my community at large for the pleasure of
  sharing it, and seeing what it can become. The sole reward I seek is
  our wellbeing as a vibrant community.

  And lolz. Lolz measure a lot of that.


6.2 Unlicencing
───────────────

  This is free and unencumbered software released into the public
  domain.

  Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
  distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
  binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
  means.

  In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
  of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
  software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
  of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
  successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
  relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
  software under copyright law.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
  OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
  OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

  For more information, please refer to <https://unlicense.org>
